## Project Progress

A few weeks ago while talking in the community discord of the runelight project I was made aware of a popular fork of the main project called OPRS it has a smaller user base but its still quite large (~1000 concurrent users vs  56000 concurrent users at the time of writing). After using the client, I appreciated many of the features of it. After using the client for a few days I noticed it was lacking a feature that I wanted in the client and that I thought was needed (Keeping track and displaying to the user how much gold is earned while chopping down trees so that different tree types can be compared by profit and experience). I was reading the code base of the main fork and knew it fairly well and the code base of OPRS was very similar, however, there were some differences so I did have to take some time rereading some of the code base. I implemented my feature as a togglable option to one of the clients plug-ins and submitted the [pull request](https://github.com/open-osrs/runelite/pull/1877) when I was done.  One of the maintainers asked for some changes so that the code was cleaner and more maintainable I made those changes and then those changes were accepted 4 days ago and 3 days ago the changes were merged into origin master. Today the changes are officially part of the 2.19.0 release of the client installer. 



From here I will probably adapt the code I made from OPRS to the main fork as it will need a few changes but it shouldn't be too hard to do. I will also look out for any issues that I feel like I can solve on both OPRS and runelite. I may even start looking at other open source projects that might interest me. 

## Wikipedia

While investigating the Wikipedia pages what stuck with me is that articles should be notable, because this means that most likely most articles that are notable that I can make good make are already created although I will have to keep looking into that. More likely however is that, I will make a contribution to an already existing article probably one that is rather small. The most likely way I can contribute is to articles which are stubs or that lack citations.



## Thoughts on "Makers and Takers" by Dries Buytaert 

The makers and takers article was very interesting because it describes how open source projects can be governed and maintained. However as I was reading the article many things stood out to me such as when he said that companies can change their open source licenses to govern their open source by privatization. If the license is able to change to a less open license, then that project is still open source at that point. If a project was forked while under a open source license is it still considered to exist under that open source license. 



As a solution to providing sustainable open source however I think the most practical answer would be some form of license similar to the BSL. Such that takers as Buytaert describes them would have to pay but free riders would be allowed. It could even be written in such a way that meaningful software contributions could act in leu of monetary contributions.
