## Blog Week 6

### Open source projects.

#### Possible open source projects
Project | Description | Thoughts
------------------|------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------
[Red Discord bot](https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot) | Open source discord bot with wide functionality written in python | I might work on this as I worked on discord bots for my own personal projects. 
[uhabits](https://github.com/iSoron/uhabits/) | Productivity app for andriod | I might work on this becuase im very intrested in this app as I use it reguarly but Im not that familiar with Java/Kotlin so it will probably be harder.
[algos](https://github.com/faheel/Algos/) | Library of various algoritims for c++ | It is very simple and written is c++. So good choice for something easy.
[city-scrapers](https://github.com/City-Bureau/city-scrapers) | Scrapes information for city hall meeting into an easy to read format | I might want to work on this as it as the code base seems reletivly easy to read and its for a good cause.

#### Karen Sandler's talk
I thought that the talk Karen Sandler gave huge insights on how important it is to have software which we depend on be open source, especially software for medical devices but really in every application. One of the biggest reasons to have that software be open source is because when designing software it is impossible to take into account every edge case that exists, and therefore people effected by not being considered just have to live with the fact that the software they use does not support them. Open source software however gives people the power to change software to not only so that their own edge case is covered but for everyone else that it applies too. Also I learned about copyleft and how it differs from permissive open source. And how copyleft is designed to spread as copyleft licenses end up applying to all software that uses some come from other copylefted software.
